---
title: Ithika
date: 2023-01-03 00:00:00 +0600
categories: [Poetry]
tags: [poems, creativity, 100DaysToOffload]
---

Translation courtesy of [The Poetry Foundation](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/51296/ithaka-56d22eef917ec).

Ithaka

By C. P. Cavafy

Translated by Edmund Keeley

> As you set out for Ithaka

> hope your road is a long one,

> full of adventure, full of discovery.

> Laistrygonians, Cyclops,

> angry Poseidon—don’t be afraid of them:

> you’ll never find things like that on your way

> as long as you keep your thoughts raised high,

> as long as a rare excitement

> stirs your spirit and your body.

> Laistrygonians, Cyclops,

> wild Poseidon—you won’t encounter them

> unless you bring them along inside your soul,

> unless your soul sets them up in front of you.

---

> Hope your road is a long one.

> May there be many summer mornings when,

> with what pleasure, what joy,

> you enter harbors you’re seeing for the first time;

> may you stop at Phoenician trading stations

> to buy fine things,

> mother of pearl and coral, amber and ebony,

> sensual perfume of every kind—

> as many sensual perfumes as you can;

> and may you visit many Egyptian cities

> to learn and go on learning from their scholars.

---

> Keep Ithaka always in your mind.

> Arriving there is what you’re destined for.

> But don’t hurry the journey at all.

> Better if it lasts for years,

> so you’re old by the time you reach the island,

> wealthy with all you’ve gained on the way,

> not expecting Ithaka to make you rich.

---

> Ithaka gave you the marvelous journey.

> Without her you wouldn't have set out.

> She has nothing left to give you now.

---

> And if you find her poor, Ithaka won’t have fooled you.

> Wise as you will have become, so full of experience,

> you’ll have understood by then what these Ithakas mean.

This poem [comes to me](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SUPlNxhOvMI) at an opportune time. I am starting out on a journey of resolutions. Naturally, my mind has been on the destination. The “Ithaka”. It is always good to remember that the journey. I plan to keep this in mind every day I can. Already I can feel the sort of slog, the resistance my brain is putting up to change. In the past, that would make me anxious. It would drain my energy, and push me to quitting. This time, maybe I will try and look at this resistance through this lens. Maybe this time, it won’t be too much. A missed day here or there won’t be debilitating, even if the streak is technically broken.

---

Day 3 of the #100DaysToOffloadseries. I don’t know if I am going for 100 days in a row, or just throughout the year. We will see!